

Learned a bit more: actually, the whole breadboard (tiny, rgb-led)
works fine on 3 volts from 2 AAA cells.  Draws about 8 mA - with the
LEDs not fully bright.  That changes the partslist for power a lot -
might work on a single CR2032, or only 2 AAAs.  Running a test over
the weekend to see how long a set of AAAs last.


Next steps on the RGB-LED Button/Badge board project: I've dropped a
few more symbols onto the schematic for us to talk about.  Task 1:
everyone following along get git and kicad 7.0 installed on your home
computer, and clone the repo
https://github.com/Team-4795/badge-button-RGBLED

Once you clone the repo and open the kicad project, the schematic
should look like this:
sch-dec20.png

One of the new parts is a capacitor, a component that stores
electrical energy for a short time.  It does this by allowing extra
electrons to accumulate on one of its two _plates_, while the other
plate has a deficit of electrons (or a positive charge).  It can
release that charge as current very fast - much faster than a battery
can charge or discharge.  Chips like our microcontroller and smart
LEDs draw can current in very spiky bursts, and may not operate
correctly without capacitors placed very close to the chip.  We'll put
one by the CPU and one near each LED.

Drawing schematic connections (wires) in KiCad


(symbol vs footprint, re cr2032)


Cool!  Sorry it took so long for me to get back to you; crash project
at work last night and today.  Upon more thought, I don't think we
need a custom symbol for the coin cell holder.  The generic
device/battery symbol will do fine, and looks like the traditional
textbook battery symbol.  What we do need is a custom footprint - the
shape that goes on the PCB layout that specifies where the holes+pads
for the pins are, and has the exact round shape with a bump out on one
side for the silkscreen and the keepout region.
https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/adam-tech/BH-25C-1/13537703
(edited)

Now, if you wanted to do a custom symbol anyway just to learn how: I'd
draw the short+thick and long+thin lines of the textbook battery
symbol in the middle.  Then put an upward-facing pin on the top, for
the plus connection.  and a downward facing pin on the bottom.


Pins have both a name and a number, here the names are plus and minus, and the numbers 1 and 2.   The reference designator is B?,  and the value is CR2032.

Like i said, we really don't need to do this, but it won't hurt.  But
when would you need a special custom symbol?  If its a wierd battery
or thing that has three or more pins, for one.  Say you want to have a
thick current-carrying pin for the charge/discharge current, and a
thin pin that senses the voltage right at the battery.  Then, you'd
draw more pins on the sides, or make the whole thing a rectangle and
put them wherever it makes sense.

just clarifying: symbols don't and usually shouldn't look anything
like the physical part on the board - they should look like the
textbook symbols for best understanding.  Footprints on the other hand
have to exactly match the size and hold positions of part that gets
chosen.One reason for the distinction: In industry, the design
engineer draws the schematic, and someone else picks the parts and
does the board layout based on which parts are available cheapest, or
on time, or otherwise fit the physical needs.

Where I led us astray is thinking about the other candidate battery
holder
https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/te-connectivity-linx/BAT-HLD-001-THM/3044009
which has 4 physical pins that both hold down the metal clip to the
board and provide the electrical connection.  I've used other
schematic+board tools that didn't allow a symbol to have 2 pins and
the footprint to have 5.  But in Kicad that's OK.  Although it will
force you to connect all 4 of the "plus" pins together electrically,
even though only one of them would really need to be wired up since
they're connected together through the metal of the clip.  Even more
elaborate tools allow specfiying the diference between "pick whichever
one of these 4 is convenient" and "you must wire up all four".





Replyâ€¦
Also send to 
electrical

